---
sidebar: auto
---

# Configuration Reference

## Global CLI Config

Some global configurations for `@vue/cli`, such as your preferred package manager and your locally saved presets, are stored in a JSON file named `.vuerc` in your home directory. You can edit this file directly with your editor of choice to change the saved options.

You can also use the `vue config` command to inspect or modify the global CLI config.

## Target Browsers

See the [Browser Compatibility](../guide/browser-compatibility.md#browserslist) section in guide.

## vue.config.js

`vue.config.js` is an optional config file that will be automatically loaded by `@vue/cli-service` if it's present in your project root (next to `package.json`). You can also use the `vue` field in `package.json`, but do note in that case you will be limited to JSON-compatible values only.

The file should export an object containing options:

``` js
// vue.config.js

/**
 * @type {import('@vue/cli-service').ProjectOptions}
 */
module.exports = {
  // options...
}
```

Or, you can use the `defineConfig` helper from `@vue/cli-service`, which could provide better intellisense support:

```js
// vue.config.js
const { defineConfig } = require('@vue/cli-service')

module.exports = defineConfig({
  // options...
})
```

### baseUrl

Deprecated since Vue CLI 3.3, please use [`publicPath`](#publicPath) instead.

### publicPath

- Type: `string`
- Default: `'/'`

  The base URL your application bundle will be deployed at (known as `baseUrl` before Vue CLI 3.3). This is the equivalent of webpack's `output.publicPath`, but Vue CLI also needs this value for other purposes, so you should **always use `publicPath` instead of modifying webpack `output.publicPath`**.

  By default, Vue CLI assumes your app will be deployed at the root of a domain, e.g. `https://www.my-app.com/`. If your app is deployed at a sub-path, you will need to specify that sub-path using this option. For example, if your app is deployed at `https://www.foobar.com/my-app/`, set `publicPath` to `'/my-app/'`.

  The value can also be set to an empty string (`''`) or a relative path (`./`) so that all assets are linked using relative paths. This allows the built bundle to be deployed under any public path, or used in a file system based environment like a Cordova hybrid app.

  ::: warning Limitations of relative publicPath
  Relative `publicPath` has some limitations and should be avoided when:

  - You are using HTML5 `history.pushState` routing;

  - You are using the `pages` option to build a multi-paged app.
  :::

  This value is also respected during development. If you want your dev server to be served at root instead, you can use a conditional value:

  ``` js
  module.exports = {
    publicPath: process.env.NODE_ENV === 'production'
      ? '/production-sub-path/'
      : '/'
  }
  ```

### outputDir

- Type: `string`
- Default: `'dist'`

  The directory where the production build files will be generated in when running `vue-cli-service build`. Note the target directory contents will be removed before building (this behavior can be disabled by passing `--no-clean` when building).

  ::: tip
  Always use `outputDir` instead of modifying webpack `output.path`.
  :::

### assetsDir

- Type: `string`
- Default: `''`

  A directory (relative to `outputDir`) to nest generated static assets (js, css, img, fonts) under.

  ::: tip
  `assetsDir` is ignored when overwriting the filename or chunkFilename from the generated assets.
  :::

### indexPath

- Type: `string`
- Default: `'index.html'`

  Specify the output path for the generated `index.html` (relative to `outputDir`). Can also be an absolute path.

### filenameHashing

- Type: `boolean`
- Default: `true`

  By default, generated static assets contains hashes in their filenames for better caching control. However, this requires the index HTML to be auto-generated by Vue CLI. If you cannot make use of the index HTML generated by Vue CLI, you can disable filename hashing by setting this option to `false`.

### pages

- Type: `Object`
- Default: `undefined`

  Build the app in multi-page mode. Each "page" should have a corresponding JavaScript entry file. The value should be an object where the key is the name of the entry, and the value is either:

  - An object that specifies its `entry`, `template`, `filename`, `title` and `chunks` (all optional except `entry`). Any other properties added beside those will also be passed directly to `html-webpack-plugin`, allowing user to customize said plugin;
  - Or a string specifying its `entry`.

  ``` js
  module.exports = {
    pages: {
      index: {
        // entry for the page
        entry: 'src/index/main.js',
        // the source template
        template: 'public/index.html',
        // output as dist/index.html
        filename: 'index.html',
        // when using title option,
        // template title tag needs to be <title><%= htmlWebpackPlugin.options.title %></title>
        title: 'Index Page',
        // chunks to include on this page, by default includes
        // extracted common chunks and vendor chunks.
        chunks: ['chunk-vendors', 'chunk-common', 'index']
      },
      // when using the entry-only string format,
      // template is inferred to be `public/subpage.html`
      // and falls back to `public/index.html` if not found.
      // Output filename is inferred to be `subpage.html`.
      subpage: 'src/subpage/main.js'
    }
  }
  ```

  ::: tip
  When building in multi-page mode, the webpack config will contain different plugins (there will be multiple instances of `html-webpack-plugin` and `preload-webpack-plugin`). Make sure to run `vue inspect` if you are trying to modify the options for those plugins.
  :::

### lintOnSave

- Type: `boolean | 'warning' | 'default' | 'error'`
- Default: `'default'`

  Whether to perform lint-on-save during development using [eslint-loader](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/eslint-loader). This value is respected only when [`@vue/cli-plugin-eslint`](https://github.com/vuejs/vue-cli/tree/dev/packages/%40vue/cli-plugin-eslint) is installed.

  When set to `true` or `'warning'`, `eslint-loader` will emit lint errors as warnings. By default, warnings are only logged to the terminal and does not fail the compilation, so this is a good default for development.

  To make lint errors show up in the browser overlay, you can use `lintOnSave: 'default'`. This will force `eslint-loader` to actually emit errors. this also means lint errors will now cause the compilation to fail.

  Setting it to `'error'` will force eslint-loader to emit warnings as errors as well, which means warnings will also show up in the overlay.

  Alternatively, you can configure the overlay to display both warnings and errors:

  ``` js
  // vue.config.js
  module.exports = {
    devServer: {
      overlay: {
        warnings: true,
        errors: true
      }
    }
  }
  ```

  When `lintOnSave` is a truthy value, `eslint-loader` will be applied in both development and production. If you want to disable `eslint-loader` during production build, you can use the following config:

  ``` js
  // vue.config.js
  module.exports = {
    lintOnSave: process.env.NODE_ENV !== 'production'
  }
  ```

### runtimeCompiler

- Type: `boolean`
- Default: `false`

  Whether to use the build of Vue core that includes the runtime compiler. Setting it to `true` will allow you to use the `template` option in Vue components, but will incur around an extra 10kb payload for your app.

  See also: [Runtime + Compiler vs. Runtime only](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/installation.html#Runtime-Compiler-vs-Runtime-only).

### transpileDependencies

- Type: `boolean | Array<string | RegExp>`
- Default: `false`

  By default `babel-loader` ignores all files inside `node_modules`. You can enable this option to avoid unexpected untranspiled code from third-party dependencies.

  Transpiling all the dependencies could slow down the build process, though. If build performance is a concern, you can explicitly transpile only some of the dependencies by passing an array of package names or name patterns to this option.

::: warning Jest config
This option is not respected by the [cli-unit-jest plugin](#jest), because in jest, we don't have to transpile code from `/node_modules` unless it uses non-standard features - Node >8.11 supports the latest ECMAScript features already.

However, jest sometimes has to transform content from node_modules if that code uses ES6 `import`/`export` syntax. In that case, use the `transformIgnorePatterns` option in `jest.config.js`.

See [the plugin's README](https://github.com/vuejs/vue-cli/blob/dev/packages/%40vue/cli-plugin-unit-jest/README.md) for more information.
:::

### productionSourceMap

- Type: `boolean`
- Default: `true`

  Setting this to `false` can speed up production builds if you don't need source maps for production.

### crossorigin

- Type: `string`
- Default: `undefined`

  Configure the `crossorigin` attribute on `<link rel="stylesheet">` and `<script>` tags in generated HTML.

  Note that this only affects tags injected by `html-webpack-plugin` - tags directly added in the source template (`public/index.html`) are not affected.

  See also: [CORS settings attributes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/CORS_settings_attributes)

### integrity

- Type: `boolean`
- Default: `false`

  Set to `true` to enable [Subresource Integrity](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Subresource_Integrity) (SRI) on `<link rel="stylesheet">` and `<script>` tags in generated HTML. If you are hosting your built files on a CDN, it is a good idea to enable this for additional security.

  Note that this only affects tags injected by `html-webpack-plugin` - tags directly added in the source template (`public/index.html`) are not affected.

  Also, when SRI is enabled, preload resource hints are disabled due to a [bug in Chrome](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=677022) which causes the resources to be downloaded twice.

### configureWebpack

- Type: `Object | Function`

  If the value is an Object, it will be merged into the final config using [webpack-merge](https://github.com/survivejs/webpack-merge).

  If the value is a function, it will receive the resolved config as the argument. The function can either mutate the config and return nothing, OR return a cloned or merged version of the config.

  See also: [Working with Webpack > Simple Configuration](../guide/webpack.md#simple-configuration)

### chainWebpack

- Type: `Function`

  A function that will receive an instance of `ChainableConfig` powered by [webpack-chain](https://github.com/mozilla-neutrino/webpack-chain). Allows for more fine-grained modification of the internal webpack config.

  See also: [Working with Webpack > Chaining](../guide/webpack.md#chaining-advanced)

### css.modules

### css.requireModuleExtension

Both removed in v5, see [Working with CSS > CSS Modules](../guide/css.md#css-modules) for guidance on how to treat all style imports as CSS Modules.

### css.extract

- Type: `boolean | Object`
- Default: `true` in production, `false` in development

  Whether to extract CSS in your components into a standalone CSS file (instead of inlined in JavaScript and injected dynamically).

  This is always disabled when building as web components (styles are inlined and injected into shadowRoot).

  When building as a library, you can also set this to `false` to avoid your users having to import the CSS themselves.

  Extracting CSS is disabled by default in development mode since it is incompatible with CSS hot reloading. However, you can still enforce extraction in all cases by explicitly setting the value to `true`.

  Instead of a `true`, you can also pass an object of options for the [mini-css-extract-plugin](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/mini-css-extract-plugin) if you want to further configure what this plugin does exactly.

### css.sourceMap

- Type: `boolean`
- Default: `false`

  Whether to enable source maps for CSS. Setting this to `true` may affect build performance.

### css.loaderOptions

- Type: `Object`
- Default: `{}`

  Pass options to CSS-related loaders. For example:

  ``` js
  module.exports = {
    css: {
      loaderOptions: {
        css: {
          // options here will be passed to css-loader
        },
        postcss: {
          // options here will be passed to postcss-loader
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```

  Supported loaders are:

  - [css-loader](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/css-loader)
  - [postcss-loader](https://github.com/postcss/postcss-loader)
  - [sass-loader](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/sass-loader)
  - [less-loader](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/less-loader)
  - [stylus-loader](https://github.com/shama/stylus-loader)

  It's also possible to target `scss` syntax separately from `sass`, with the `scss` option.

  See also: [Passing Options to Pre-Processor Loaders](../guide/css.md#passing-options-to-pre-processor-loaders)

  ::: tip
  This is preferred over manually tapping into specific loaders using `chainWebpack`, because these options need to be applied in multiple locations where the corresponding loader is used.
  :::

### devServer

- Type: `Object`

  [All options for `webpack-dev-server`](https://webpack.js.org/configuration/dev-server/) are supported. Note that:

  - Some values like `host`, `port` and `https` may be overwritten by command line flags.

  - Some values like `publicPath` and `historyApiFallback` should not be modified as they need to be synchronized with [publicPath](#publicPath) for the dev server to function properly.

### devServer.proxy

- Type: `string | Object`

  If your frontend app and the backend API server are not running on the same host, you will need to proxy API requests to the API server during development. This is configurable via the `devServer.proxy` option in `vue.config.js`.

  `devServer.proxy` can be a string pointing to the development API server:

  ``` js
  module.exports = {
    devServer: {
      proxy: 'http://localhost:4000'
    }
  }
  ```

  This will tell the dev server to proxy any unknown requests (requests that did not match a static file) to `http://localhost:4000`.

  ::: warning
  When `devServer.proxy` is set to a string, only XHR requests will be proxied. If you want to test an API URL, don't open it in the browser, use an API tool like Postman instead.
  :::

  If you want to have more control over the proxy behavior, you can also use an object with `path: options` pairs. Consult [http-proxy-middleware](https://github.com/chimurai/http-proxy-middleware#proxycontext-config) for full options:

  ``` js
  module.exports = {
    devServer: {
      proxy: {
        '^/api': {
          target: '<url>',
          ws: true,
          changeOrigin: true
        },
        '^/foo': {
          target: '<other_url>'
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```

### devServer.inline

- Type: `boolean`
- Default: `true`

  Toggle between the dev-server's two different modes. See [devServer.inline](https://webpack.js.org/configuration/dev-server/#devserverinline) for more details. Note that:

  - To use the `iframe mode` no additional configuration is needed. Just navigate the browser to `http://<host>:<port>/webpack-dev-server/<path>` to debug your app. A notification bar with messages will appear at the top of your app.
  - To use the `inline mode`, just navigate to `http://<host>:<port>/<path>` to debug your app. The build messages will appear in the browser console.

### parallel

- Type: `boolean | number`
- Default: `require('os').cpus().length > 1`

  Whether to use `thread-loader` for Babel or TypeScript transpilation. This is enabled for production builds when the system has more than 1 CPU cores. Passing a number will define the amount of workers used.

::: warning
Do not use `parallel` in combination with non-serializable loader options, such as regexes, dates and functions. These options would not be passed correctly to the respective loaders which may lead to unexpected errors.
:::

### pwa

- Type: `Object`

  Pass options to the [PWA Plugin](https://github.com/vuejs/vue-cli/tree/dev/packages/%40vue/cli-plugin-pwa).

### pluginOptions

- Type: `Object`

  This is an object that doesn't go through any schema validation, so it can be used to pass arbitrary options to 3rd party plugins. For example:

  ``` js
  module.exports = {
    pluginOptions: {
      foo: {
        // plugins can access these options as
        // `options.pluginOptions.foo`.
      }
    }
  }
  ```

## Babel

Babel can be configured via `babel.config.js`.

::: tip
Vue CLI uses `babel.config.js` which is a new config format in Babel 7. Unlike `.babelrc` or the `babel` field in `package.json`, this config file does not use a file-location based resolution, and is applied consistently to any file under project root, including dependencies inside `node_modules`. It is recommended to always use `babel.config.js` instead of other formats in Vue CLI projects.
:::

All Vue CLI apps use `@vue/babel-preset-app`, which includes `babel-preset-env`, JSX support and optimized configuration for minimal bundle size overhead. See [its docs](https://github.com/vuejs/vue-cli/tree/dev/packages/%40vue/babel-preset-app) for details and preset options.

Also see the [Polyfills](../guide/browser-compatibility.md#polyfills) section in guide.

## ESLint

ESLint can be configured via `.eslintrc` or `eslintConfig` field in `package.json`.

See [@vue/cli-plugin-eslint](https://github.com/vuejs/vue-cli/tree/dev/packages/%40vue/cli-plugin-eslint) for more details.

## TypeScript

TypeScript can be configured via `tsconfig.json`.

See [@vue/cli-plugin-typescript](https://github.com/vuejs/vue-cli/tree/dev/packages/%40vue/cli-plugin-typescript) for more details.

## Unit Testing

### Jest

See [@vue/cli-plugin-unit-jest](https://github.com/vuejs/vue-cli/tree/dev/packages/%40vue/cli-plugin-unit-jest) for more details.

### Mocha (via `mocha-webpack`)

See [@vue/cli-plugin-unit-mocha](https://github.com/vuejs/vue-cli/tree/dev/packages/%40vue/cli-plugin-unit-mocha) for more details.

## E2E Testing

### Cypress

See [@vue/cli-plugin-e2e-cypress](https://github.com/vuejs/vue-cli/tree/dev/packages/%40vue/cli-plugin-e2e-cypress) for more details.

### Nightwatch

See [@vue/cli-plugin-e2e-nightwatch](https://github.com/vuejs/vue-cli/tree/dev/packages/%40vue/cli-plugin-e2e-nightwatch) for more details.

### WebdriverIO

See [@vue/cli-plugin-e2e-webdriverio](https://github.com/vuejs/vue-cli/tree/dev/packages/%40vue/cli-plugin-e2e-webdriverio) for more details.
